Let's say that your website is
already loaded, you are okay with it,
now we will see in our example if
there is anything else we can improve,
well, you will have
interaction experience.
Well, first and big warning,
we shouldn't do client-side rendering,
I'm sorry I know it hurts, okay?
But client-side rendering for the initial
load, for the content that you see
initially, it's a very bad idea,
it's a terrible idea for performance.
And again, yeah, but we know we like
React because blah-blah, I don't care,
we're losing money.
So it's not enough reason,
whatever reason you are thinking,
it's not enough reason
if we are losing money.
If you are paying for ads,
if my company is paying for ads, for
a website that then users
are not using because it's slow.
And if you don't believe me,
because I know that a lot of you will not,
you are not really convinced
that this is true,
that a couple of milliseconds
will make a difference.
There are a lot of research on that,
but do a research on your own website.
So do some A-B testing,
in fact, Amazon did that and
they released the research,
that was a long time ago.
They they were creating
experiments with groups, so
let's say in the next hour, we split
all the Amazon visitors in 10 groups.
Group A, we won't give them
any delay Group B we have
50 milliseconds delay, 100 milliseconds,
150 and then we analyze conversion.
If you are large as Amazon,
you will see a lot of traffic and
in one hour you can get enough details
to have conclusions and you will see.
Okay, what's the difference
when you have delays and
when you don't have delays for
the same UI?
And on the Amazon research,
like a decade ago,
they realized that they were
losing 1% of sales, 1% of sales,
every 100 milliseconds of delay,
that's a lot, it's a lot of money, okay?
That might be different for your case,
that might be not the case today,
it was 10 years ago,
maybe it's different but anyway,
it has been proven that always, better
performance leads to better conversion.
How much?
It depends on the case and again, you can
measure that, you can do an experiment and
that's why client-side
rendering is a bad idea.
That's why even the React team,
if you go today to the React documentation
that was updated a few weeks ago, now
they don't suggest client-side rendering.
It's still there as one option, but
it's not the recommended way to do React,
the React team is recommended to do
React with a framework, such as Next.js.
The framework that is
server-side rendered or
it's a mix,
it's a start as a server-side render, and
then you move to the client, which is
fair and that's because of performance.
Because now we know that pure client-side
rendering has performance issues and
pretty bad performance issues, okay?
Does it make sense?
So also if you really have heavy tasks,
you're gonna start thinking about
moving that to WebAssembly.
So if you're taking,
you have a long, really long task and
creating a thread is not making that
better because you can create web workers
as well with transcript.
Another way is to create
a module in WebAssembly,
now it's compatible with every browser
Squoosh, the app that we saw that is
converting the apps, is making all
the conversion in WebAssembly.
So it's an option, it's there for
us, I know that as web developers,
it feels really strange, like some strange
guy there that we don't wanna see,
we don't wanna touch but
it's something interesting, okay?
To see,
we're not going to write dumb code in
WebAssembly but for
a lot of processing in my work.
Yeah.
>> Can you give me a real life example of
something you would use WebAssembly for?
>> Well, Squoosh is one example, in that
case, so processing bytes, binary data,
in this case converting JPEGs into
web files, that's a good example.
Today, decoding and
encoding things like Amazon Prime, video,
Netflix, StarPlus, Barmah cloud,
they are all using WebAssembly for
decoding and encoding video,
typically it's about processing data.
Of course then we have,
talking about legacy,
we have some interesting
things going on on the web.
You can run any legacy DOS application,
for example or
you can run Windows on top of a browser or
Quake III and
there are a lot of examples like that and
they are using WebAssembly.
They are just taking some code written
in C, 20 years ago, 30 years ago, and
they're converting that into a WebAssembly
model and running it in the browser.
So yeah, those are very niche idea for
a web app,
but my thinking is that if you
are parsing a lot of content,
making a lot of calculations,
and you see in the console or
using APIs that I will
mention in a minute.
That it's a long task, so
it's taking too much time to execute,
then you might be thinking, well, maybe we
should start thinking about WebAssembly.
>> And I'll just add that we have a course
by Jim Young on WebAssembly as well.
>> There you have it Frontend Master for
everything, you know that.
You shouldn't be watching Netflix at all,
everything should be
here at Frontend Masters.
Okay, so stop serving legacy code,
what is that?
That is unless you really have a need for
that,
like you're serving some
customers that are still on IE for
some reason,
you shouldn't export ES5 content anymore.
From, if you're using a framework or
library, you can change the setting,
it's safe to move to ESX today,
that will ship less JavaScript and
we know that JavaScript is
really harming performance.
If you still need to serve some old user,
maybe it's better to have two versions or
something like that.
Because we don't wanna
have performance just for
0.1% of your users that
might have a problem and
you're harming performance for
99.9%, it doesn't make any sense.
Reactive Web Performance
is kind of an intro for
the next and final part of the workshop,
it's an idea.
What if you can know about the context
with APIs, what's the context?
The performance context,
such as how's the latency,
how's the math with,
how's the CPU and GPU?
And you can make decisions about that,
so using different Apis,
Network Information API, it's a Javascript
API that will let you know the current for
example, latency.
Performance observers, Save-Data, that's
client hint that I mentioned before,
if the user wants to save data,
Device Memory and
more and then based on that,
you Provide a Consistent Experience.
I mentioned Netflix and
other video-based apps in
the past 10 minutes and
we can take them as examples.
So, think about this,
when you're watching a TV show or
a movie on Netflix, do you see a buffering
a lot, like a loading spinner?
Maybe the first second, but
then while you're watching,
you get a consistent experience even
if you're having network issues.
I'm not sure if you have
seen that in action, but
maybe you're watching a 4k video and at
one point it lowers down the quality and
maybe it's very pixelated at one point and
then it comes back to 4k.
So that's actually providing
a consistent experience, so
it's not like breaking
the flow of watching or
having that experience,
it's just changing the quality.
What if we can think for
some web apps, something similar?
So enable or disable Web Fonts,
Change the Service Worker's
cache policy to be more local or
be more remote like cloud-based.
Remember service worker
that can serve locally?
Well, maybe we can serve locally
only if the latency is too high and
if the latency is pretty good, well, maybe
let's go to the cloud and be more updated.
Decide between server-side render or
client-side render, maybe you say,
you know what, I can't change this.
Maybe you say I can't change this but
if the user is in a mobile phone,
that is a low level, low memory, maybe
I'm, let's jump to server-side render.
Because it's going to
be really painful for
the user to execute our three megabytes
React application client-side.
Reduce the amount of data that
we are loading by default,
and even delivering a 1x image that
is an image without high resolution,
standard resolution image,
not matter the device pixel ratio.
Because maybe you are in
an iPhone 17 pro ultra max, but
you are in the middle of nowhere with 2G,
so it's not about the phone,
the context is more than the phone,
the device, and the screen size.
In this case, the content is about
the latency, the bandwidth, if you're in
roaming and paying for the data or not, so
maybe you can change the experience, okay?
Makes sense?
So you can define based
on different situations,
what are you going to send to that user?
Google is using this a lot, because we
need to serve users everywhere, okay?
That's one provider doing that,
and even you can even set
different budgets based on
the context you set, so you say okay,
if we are in this context we
set a budget of 170k total for
all the JavaScript, all the CSS.
If you're in Wi-Fi on desktop, we have
more batches, so let's use it, of course,
this has a lot of work behind because you
need to think about how we are going to
do that, how you're going to
create that structure, okay?
But it's possible,
I'm saying that it's possible.
Also today,
you can get reports from the browser,
I'm not sure if you know this, so you can
get real user metrics from JavaScript.
There is, for example,
the reporting API,with the reporting API,
when you are serving the user the HTML,
you can add a header, it's called report2.
And that header will have a server
endpoint, then the browser in user's
device will send you information
every once in a while about what's
going on with performance and
other problems for that particular user.
And you will receive that
information at your endpoint, okay?
Make sense?
>> Is there any kind of
permission problem with that or-
>> It's first domain only, so
it should work on the same origin,
so it's your own website just
giving the browser an endpoint,
so you don't need a permission.
And it's on a best effort scenario, so
it's not guaranteed that you'll
receive all the data but
you will receive some and then you can
gather analytics and do something with it.